Edit and retry (#4424)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicepulse/intro-editing-messages.md

---

> title:  Editing failed messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  Fixing malformed messages
```

Outcome of a discussion during a DevExp sync.

> summary: Describes the concept of editing and retrying messages in ServicePulse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Describes the concept of fixing and retrying malformed messages in ServicePulse
```

component: ServicePulse
reviewed: 2019-07-04
---

> If a message cannot be successfully retried it is possible to modify that message prior to retrying it. Both the headers and the body of a message can be edited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a message cannot be successfully retried it is possible to fix the malformed message prior to retrying it. Both the headers and the body of a message can be edited.
```

---
title:  Editing failed messages
summary: Describes the concept of editing and retrying messages in ServicePulse
component: ServicePulse
reviewed: 2019-07-04
---

> ## About message edit and retry

Reviewer 2: Suggest no heading at start, duplicative of title
```suggestion
```

If a message cannot be successfully retried it is possible to modify that message prior to retrying it. Both the headers and the body of a message can be edited.

## Enabling the feature

The message edit and retry feature is not enabled by default. To enable it, contact [Particular Support(https://particular.net/support) for assistance.

## Editing headers

Headers on all failed messages can be edited using this feature. There are three categories of headers, each with different editing restrictions.

> ### Locked headers

Reviewer 2: Recommend this should be a bullet list to describe the terms, with terms in bold. Under Custom, the 2 current paragraphs can be merged.

Reviewer 2: Or are you wanting me to add here which headers apply to each category, so that THOSE can be in a bullet list below the text which will serve as introductions to each section?

Author: I didn't intend on listing the headers here. I think the UI does a good job of showing what can/can't be edited and that is probably documentation enough.

Headers that are critical to the operation of NServiceBus cannot be edited. These headers will have a lock image next to otheir name.

### Sensitive headers

Headers that, when their values change, may result in unexpected or unwanted behavior are categorized as "Sensitive". When editing these headers the user will be warned of their sensitive nature.

### Custom headers

Any headers that have been been categorized as Locked or Sensitive will be fully editable. This will include headers created as part of a system customization.

It is also possible to delete (and retrieve) these headers during the editing process. Once a message has been edited and retried, any deleted headers will be lost forever.

## Editing the message body

> Message bodies can be edited before they are retried. This is only possible for message bodies that are serialized using JSON or XML. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Message bodies can be edited before they are retried. This is only possible for message bodies that are serialized using unencrypted JSON or XML.
```

## Retrying edited messages

> When retrying an edited message it is possible that the original failed message will have been resolved by anothehr user, retried successfully by another user, or [expired as part of the automated processes](/servicecontrol/how-purge-expired-data.md). In that scenario, the retry of the edited message will fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When retrying an edited message it is possible that the original failed message will have been resolved by another user, retried successfully by another user, or [expired as part of the automated processes](/servicecontrol/how-purge-expired-data.md). In those scenarios, the retry of the edited message will fail.
```

As soon as a message has been dispatched for retrying the originally failing message will be marked as resolved. If the retry message subsequently fails it will appear as a new failed message in the user interface. That new failed message will be marked as having been edited and also have a link to the original message.

> ## Limitations and restrictions

Reviewer 2: Isn't this whole section duplicating above? Especially if my suggested to add the single word `unencrypted` is accepted?
